# Setting up a Project Space 

## What is a Project Space?

Users can work with files in two different main directories. The first
is their personal home directory, found in `/home/[username]`. The
second is within a project directory, found in
`/project/[project_name]`. These project directories provide a space
where files can easily be shared and analyzed with collaborators. Using
the [Group Management](../General_tools/group-permissions.md) tools, users can
designate a list of others who can access their files. These designated
individuals, if also given an account on the Science Portal, may
interact with the files using the various session types available. These
features enable truly collaborative work, e.g., allowing a team to
jointly reduce large quantities of data from a project.

## How to Request a Project Space

In order to request a project space, you will need to have a name for
the space (the name of the project directory). As with home directories,
the default diskspace allocation is 200GB. If you anticipate needing
more than this (e.g., working with large datasets such as from ALMA or
the VLA), you will need an estimate of the amount of diskspace that you
will need. (Requests to change the diskspace allocation at a later date
are also possible.) Once you have this information, if you are on the
Discord workspace, the easiest way to request a project space is to post
the request there, with a note to Kevin Casteels. Alternatively, you can
email the request to `support@canfar.net`

## How to Give Collaborators Access

Collaborators will require a free CADC account in order to be added as
people with designated access to the project space files. A CADC account
can be requested at
<https://www.cadc-ccda.hia-iha.nrc-cnrc.gc.ca/en/auth/request.html> If
your collaborators only wish to download the files and analyze them on
their own computers, this step is sufficient; they can access the files
on the web at
<https://www.canfar.net/storage/arc/list/project/[project_name]> or
use the [VOS Tools](../General_tools/vospace-tools.md) to download
them. If your collaborators wish to work on the files directly on the
Science Portal, they will need to request an account on the system,
either through emailing `support@canfar.net` or you can post a request
on the slack channel on their behalf (please include their CADC username
and the project that you'd like them to have access to).

Finally, you can manage which users are able to access your files on the
project space using the [Group Management tools](../General_tools/group-permissions.md).
